## How to contribute to OpenPype

We are always happy for any contributions for OpenPype improvements. Before making a PR and starting working on an issue, please read these simple guidelines.

### 🪲 **Did you find a bug?**

1. Check in the issues and our [bug list[(https://github.com/pypeclub/OpenPype/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22type%3A+bug%22) to make sure it wasn't reported already.
2. Ask on our [discord](https://discord.gg/sFNPWXG). Often, what appears as a bug to you, might be the intended behaviour for someone else.
3. Create a new issue.
4. Use the issue template for you PR please.


### 🔨 **Did you write a patch that fixes a bug?**

- Open a new GitHub pull request with the patch.
- Ensure the PR description clearly describes the problem and solution. Include the relevant issue number if applicable.

### ➕ **Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?**

- Open a new thread in the [github discussions](https://github.com/pypeclub/openpype/discussions/new)
- We will convert issues into discussion thread when we feel they are not fleshed out enough yet, or when more conversation is needed.
- Do not open issue until the suggestion is discussed. We will convert accepted suggestions into backlog and point them to the relevant discussion thread to keep the context.
- If you are already working on a new feature and you'd like it eventually merged to the main codebase, please consider making a DRAFT PR as soon as possible. This makes it a lot easier to give feedback, discuss the code and functionalit, plus it prevents multiple people tackling the same problem independently. 

### ❓ **Do you have questions about the source code?**

Open a new question on [github discussions](https://github.com/pypeclub/openpype/discussions/new)

## Branching Strategy

We use slightly simplified Gitflow workflow for all the development across our repositories. The key branches you'll find are `main` which holds all the releases and can be considered production stable and `develop` which received daily PR merges and we highly discourage from using it in live production.

- If you want to create a pull request with your changes, please always use **`develop`** branch as your target. 
- Please use descriptive names fo your branches as much as possible and always prefix them with `feature/` or `bugfix/` as per general gitflow guidelines.


## Pull Requests

- If the PR is related to a host, start the PR with {hostname}: same goes for modules.
- Keep in mind that the name of the PR will be publicly visible in the autogenerated changelog, so make sure it is simple, descriptive and humanly readable

We're doing our best to review all community code, however, please keep in mind that we currently don't have enough capacity to push large PRs through quickly. We might change the target of you PR to and intermediate branch, rather than `develop` if we feel it requires some extra work on our end. That way, we preserve all your commits so you don't loose out on the contribution credits