website/docs/admin_hosts_aftereffects.md, before:

---
id: admin_hosts_aftereffects
title: AfterEffects Settings
sidebar_label: AfterEffects
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## AfterEffects settings

There is a couple of settings that could configure publishing process for **AfterEffects**.
All of them are Project based, eg. each project could have different configuration.

Location: Settings > Project > AfterEffects

![AfterEffects Project Settings](assets/admin_hosts_aftereffects_settings.png)

## Publish plugins

### Validate Scene Settings

#### Skip Resolution Check for Tasks

Set regex pattern(s) to look for in a Task name to skip resolution check against values from DB.

#### Skip Timeline Check for Tasks

Set regex pattern(s) to look for in a Task name to skip `frameStart`, `frameEnd` check against values from DB.

### AfterEffects Submit to Deadline

* `Use Published scene` - Set to True (green) when Deadline should take published scene as a source instead of uploaded local one.
* `Priority` - priority of job on farm
* `Primary Pool` - here is list of pool fetched from server you can select from.
* `Secondary Pool`
* `Frames Per Task` - number of sequence division between individual tasks (chunks)
making one job on farm.

## Worfkile Builder

Obsolete way how to present artist with a template when they are working on new task.

## Templated Workfile Build Settings

This more advanced way allows creating more elaborate workfile templates with placeholders for loaded items or to create publishable item via Creator.

Workfile template must be prepared separately via Tray and in the host, then its location could be set for combination of:
- `Task types` (specific template for `animation`, different for `layout` etc.)
- `Task names` (regex supported )

Additional options:
- `Keep placeholders` - when template gets populated should placeholders be deleted? (In most cases yes.)
- `Create first version` - if template should be used and populated for version `v001` of a workfile automatically

Commit message:

AfterEffects: added validator for missing files in FootageItems (#5590)
* OP-6345 - updated logic to return path and comp for FootageItem

Used later to check existance of file in published comps

* OP-6345 - added validator if footage files exist

Comp could contain multiple FootageItems, eg imported file(s). If file is missing render triggered by jsx fails silently.

* OP-6345 - updated extension

* OP-6345 - small updates after testing

* OP-6345 - fix - handle Solid Footage items

JSX failed silently on Solid item as it doesn't have any `.file`

* OP-6345 - enhance documentation

* OP-6345 - remove optionality

This plugin shouldn't be optional as when needed and skipped it result in really weird behavior.

* OP-6345 - updated documentation

Added missing plugins.

* OP-6345 - missed functionality for optionality

* OP-6345 - removed unneeded import

website/docs/admin_hosts_aftereffects.md, after:

---
id: admin_hosts_aftereffects
title: AfterEffects Settings
sidebar_label: AfterEffects
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## AfterEffects settings

There is a couple of settings that could configure publishing process for **AfterEffects**.
All of them are Project based, eg. each project could have different configuration.

Location: Settings > Project > AfterEffects

![AfterEffects Project Settings](assets/admin_hosts_aftereffects_settings.png)

## Publish plugins

### Collect Review

Enable/disable creation of auto instance of review.

### Validate Scene Settings

#### Skip Resolution Check for Tasks

Set regex pattern(s) to look for in a Task name to skip resolution check against values from DB.

#### Skip Timeline Check for Tasks

Set regex pattern(s) to look for in a Task name to skip `frameStart`, `frameEnd` check against values from DB.

### ValidateContainers

By default this validator will look loaded items with lower version than latest. This validator is context wide so it must be disabled in Context button.

### AfterEffects Submit to Deadline

* `Use Published scene` - Set to True (green) when Deadline should take published scene as a source instead of uploaded local one.
* `Priority` - priority of job on farm
* `Primary Pool` - here is list of pool fetched from server you can select from.
* `Secondary Pool`
* `Frames Per Task` - number of sequence division between individual tasks (chunks)
making one job on farm.

## Worfkile Builder

Obsolete way how to present artist with a template when they are working on new task.

## Templated Workfile Build Settings

This more advanced way allows creating more elaborate workfile templates with placeholders for loaded items or to create publishable item via Creator.

Workfile template must be prepared separately via Tray and in the host, then its location could be set for combination of:
- `Task types` (specific template for `animation`, different for `layout` etc.)
- `Task names` (regex supported )

Additional options:
- `Keep placeholders` - when template gets populated should placeholders be deleted? (In most cases yes.)
- `Create first version` - if template should be used and populated for version `v001` of a workfile automatically
