website/docs/admin_settings_project_anatomy.md, before:

---
id: admin_settings_project_anatomy
title: Project Anatomy
sidebar_label: Project Anatomy
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


Project Anatomy is the most important configuration piece for each project you work on with openPype. 

It defines: 
- Project Root folders
- File naming conventions
- Folder structure templates
- Default project attributes
- Task Types
- Applications and Tool versions
- Colour Management
- File Formats 

Anatomy is the only configuration that is always saved as project override. This is to make sure, that any updates to OpenPype or Studio default values, don't affect currently running productions.

![anatomy_01](assets/settings/anatomy_01.png)

## Roots

Roots define where files are stored with path to shared folder.  It is required to set root path for each platform you are using in studio. All paths must point to same folder!

![roots01](assets/settings/anatomy_roots01.png)

It is possible to set multiple roots when necessary. That may be handy when you need to store specific type of data on another disk.
![roots02](assets/settings/anatomy_roots02.png)


Note how multiple roots are used here, to push different types of files to different shared storage.
![roots03](assets/settings/anatomy_roots03.png)


## Templates

Templates define project's folder structure and filenames. 

We have a few required anatomy templates for OpenPype to work properly, however we keep adding more when needed.

### Available template keys

<div class="row markdown">
<div class="col col--5 markdown">


| Context key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `root[name]` | Path to root folder |
| `project[name]` | Project's full name |
| `project[code]` | Project's code |
| `hierarchy` | All hierarchical parents as subfolders |
| `asset` | Name of asset or shot |
| `task[name]` | Name of task |
| `task[type]` | Type of task |
| `task[short]` | Short name of task type (eg. 'Modeling' > 'mdl') |
| `parent` | Name of hierarchical parent |
| `version` | Version number |
| `subset` | Subset name |
| `family` | Main family name |
| `ext` | File extension |
| `representation` | Representation name |
| `frame` | Frame number for sequence files. |
| `app` | Application Name |
| `user` | User's login name (can be overridden in local settings) |
| `output` |  |
| `comment` |  |

</div>
<div class="col col--7 markdown">

| Date-Time key | Example result | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `d` | 1, 30 | Short day of month |
| `dd` | 01, 30 | Day of month with 2 digits. |
| `ddd` | Mon | Shortened week day name. |
| `dddd` | Monday | Full week day name. |
| `m` | 1, 12 | Short month number. |
| `mm` | 01, 12 | Month number with 2 digits. |
| `mmm` | Jan | Shortened month name. |
| `mmmm` | January | Full month name. |
| `yy` | 20 | Shortened year. |
| `yyyy` | 2020 | Full year. |
| `H` | 4, 17 | Shortened 24-hour number. |
| `HH` | 04, 17 | 24-hour number with 2 digits. |
| `h` | 5 | Shortened 12-hour number. |
| `hh` | 05 | 12-hour number with 2 digits. |
| `ht` | AM, PM | Midday part. |
| `M` | 0 | Shortened minutes number. |
| `MM` | 00 | Minutes number with 2 digits. |
| `S` | 0 | Shortened seconds number. |
| `SS` | 00 | Seconds number with 2 digits. |

</div>
</div>

### Anatomy reference keys

Anatomy templates have ability to use "referenced keys". Best example is `path` in publish or work templates which are just referencing to `folder` and `file` (`{@folder}/{@file}`) so any changes in folder or file template are propagated to the path template. The other advantage is to simplify version and frame formatting with paddings. In default templates you can notice that keys `{@version}` or `{@frame}` are used in templates. They are referencing to `Anatomy` -> `Templates` -> `Version` or `Frame` which handle version and frame formatting with padding.

So if you set `project_anatomy/templates/defaults/version_padding` to `5` the `{@version}` key will be transformed to `v{version:0>5}` and version number in paths will have 5 numbers -> `v00001`.

### Optional keys

In some cases are not all keys available and should be just ignored. For example `{frame}` should be available only for sequences but we have single publish template. To handle these cases it is possible to use optional marks which will ignore segment of template if can't be filled because of missing keys. To mark these segments use `<` and `>`.
.
Template `{project[code]}_{asset}_{subset}<_{output}><.{@frame}>.{ext}` can handle all 4 possible situations when `output` and `frame` keys are available or not. The optional segments can contain additional text, like in the example dot (`.`) for frame and underscore (`_`) for output, those are also ignored if the keys are not available. Optional segments without formatting keys are kept untouched: `<br/>` -> stays as `<br/>`. It is possible to nest optional segments inside optional segments `<{asset}<.{@frame}><br/>>` which may result in empty string if `asset` key is not available.

## Attributes



## Task Types

Current state of default Task descriptors.

![tasks](assets/settings/anatomy_tasks.png)

## Colour Management and Formats

Commit message:

added some basic information about attributes

website/docs/admin_settings_project_anatomy.md, after:

---
id: admin_settings_project_anatomy
title: Project Anatomy
sidebar_label: Project Anatomy
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


Project Anatomy is the most important configuration piece for each project you work on with openPype. 

It defines: 
- Project Root folders
- File naming conventions
- Folder structure templates
- Default project attributes
- Task Types
- Applications and Tool versions
- Colour Management
- File Formats 

Anatomy is the only configuration that is always saved as project override. This is to make sure, that any updates to OpenPype or Studio default values, don't affect currently running productions.

![anatomy_01](assets/settings/anatomy_01.png)

## Roots

Roots define where files are stored with path to shared folder.  It is required to set root path for each platform you are using in studio. All paths must point to same folder!

![roots01](assets/settings/anatomy_roots01.png)

It is possible to set multiple roots when necessary. That may be handy when you need to store specific type of data on another disk.
![roots02](assets/settings/anatomy_roots02.png)


Note how multiple roots are used here, to push different types of files to different shared storage.
![roots03](assets/settings/anatomy_roots03.png)


## Templates

Templates define project's folder structure and filenames. 

We have a few required anatomy templates for OpenPype to work properly, however we keep adding more when needed.

### Available template keys

<div class="row markdown">
<div class="col col--5 markdown">


| Context key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `root[name]` | Path to root folder |
| `project[name]` | Project's full name |
| `project[code]` | Project's code |
| `hierarchy` | All hierarchical parents as subfolders |
| `asset` | Name of asset or shot |
| `task[name]` | Name of task |
| `task[type]` | Type of task |
| `task[short]` | Short name of task type (eg. 'Modeling' > 'mdl') |
| `parent` | Name of hierarchical parent |
| `version` | Version number |
| `subset` | Subset name |
| `family` | Main family name |
| `ext` | File extension |
| `representation` | Representation name |
| `frame` | Frame number for sequence files. |
| `app` | Application Name |
| `user` | User's login name (can be overridden in local settings) |
| `output` |  |
| `comment` |  |

</div>
<div class="col col--7 markdown">

| Date-Time key | Example result | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `d` | 1, 30 | Short day of month |
| `dd` | 01, 30 | Day of month with 2 digits. |
| `ddd` | Mon | Shortened week day name. |
| `dddd` | Monday | Full week day name. |
| `m` | 1, 12 | Short month number. |
| `mm` | 01, 12 | Month number with 2 digits. |
| `mmm` | Jan | Shortened month name. |
| `mmmm` | January | Full month name. |
| `yy` | 20 | Shortened year. |
| `yyyy` | 2020 | Full year. |
| `H` | 4, 17 | Shortened 24-hour number. |
| `HH` | 04, 17 | 24-hour number with 2 digits. |
| `h` | 5 | Shortened 12-hour number. |
| `hh` | 05 | 12-hour number with 2 digits. |
| `ht` | AM, PM | Midday part. |
| `M` | 0 | Shortened minutes number. |
| `MM` | 00 | Minutes number with 2 digits. |
| `S` | 0 | Shortened seconds number. |
| `SS` | 00 | Seconds number with 2 digits. |

</div>
</div>

### Anatomy reference keys

Anatomy templates have ability to use "referenced keys". Best example is `path` in publish or work templates which are just referencing to `folder` and `file` (`{@folder}/{@file}`) so any changes in folder or file template are propagated to the path template. The other advantage is to simplify version and frame formatting with paddings. In default templates you can notice that keys `{@version}` or `{@frame}` are used in templates. They are referencing to `Anatomy` -> `Templates` -> `Version` or `Frame` which handle version and frame formatting with padding.

So if you set `project_anatomy/templates/defaults/version_padding` to `5` the `{@version}` key will be transformed to `v{version:0>5}` and version number in paths will have 5 numbers -> `v00001`.

### Optional keys

In some cases are not all keys available and should be just ignored. For example `{frame}` should be available only for sequences but we have single publish template. To handle these cases it is possible to use optional marks which will ignore segment of template if can't be filled because of missing keys. To mark these segments use `<` and `>`.
.
Template `{project[code]}_{asset}_{subset}<_{output}><.{@frame}>.{ext}` can handle all 4 possible situations when `output` and `frame` keys are available or not. The optional segments can contain additional text, like in the example dot (`.`) for frame and underscore (`_`) for output, those are also ignored if the keys are not available. Optional segments without formatting keys are kept untouched: `<br/>` -> stays as `<br/>`. It is possible to nest optional segments inside optional segments `<{asset}<.{@frame}><br/>>` which may result in empty string if `asset` key is not available.

## Attributes

Project attributes are used as default values for new assets under project, except `Applications` and `Active project` which are project specific. Values of attributes that are **not** project specific are always used from assets. So if `tools` are not loading as expected it is because the asset have different value.

![anatomy_attributes](assets/settings/anatomy_attributes.png)

**Most of attributes don't need detailed explanation.**

| Attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Applications` | List of applications that can be used in the project. At the moment only possible filter of applications. |
| `Tools` | List of application tools. This value can be overridden per asset. |
| `Active project` | Project won't be visible in tools if enabled.<br/> - To revert check `Show Inactive projects` checkbox in project settings. |


## Task Types

Current state of default Task descriptors.

![tasks](assets/settings/anatomy_tasks.png)

## Colour Management and Formats
